was commenting about Mr. Rutter's tenure as
president of the university. My point is not to
make too strong a point of the fact that he wasn't
the ideal president. There can be no ideal
president for anybody, I suspect, although my
feeling now is that President Williams is doing an
unusually good job. But from the standpoint of the
faculty, I assume that he's also been a good job
from the standpoint of many of the students. He's
not as visible in many ways as Mr. Rutter was. Mr.
Rutter was completely accessible. You could go
see him almost a moment's notice, and many of us did
in those days.
The main point I guess I'm making in regard to Mr.
Rutter is that he was a strong leader. and he did
things with conviction. It's just that not
everybody agreed with his convictions. This is
not surprising, and my point is not to disparage
him gratuitously at all, or to disparage him in any
sense, but to indicate that it's well known in the
history of A&M that the faculty was at times,
especially certain elements of the faculty,
certain groups, I guess maybe the Young Turks, or
whatever you want to, how you want to put it, were at
odds with Mr. Rudder. We were not always in great
harmony with him. And since this is a matter of
history, it would be foolish for me to say
otherwise and not to make a point of the fact that
one of the activities that was going on, one of the
important activities that was going on in the days
from 1962 that I'm aware of up into even the late 60s
or perhaps middle and late 60s, or whatever, I
don't know when it began to tail off, were
activities in which we were appealing to Mr.
Rutter to make certain changes in matters
involving faculty participation in university
governance and having students participate more
directly in matters involving various policy.
and so forth. And the matter of tenure, for
example, came up, and it was a great, almost as if it
were a surprise to some people in the
administration that tenure even existed. Now,
people have different opinions about tenure, I
realize that, but tenure was, in fact, an issue for
a lot of people, and it became a rather critical
issue for some people in the 1960s. And there were
lots of not lost, but a few cases where these tenure
situations became crucial. And as you know,
possibly now, Union is still on what's called the
AUP censured list. And I don't know how it will ever
get off of it. I don't know what the situation is
now. But that happened back in the 60s when there
were some problems with a particular faculty
member who appealed for help and got help. And the
A&M administration was found deficient in its
handling of his case. As a matter of fact, it was a
very careful investigation, and that's the way it
stands to this day. Now, there's a new
administration, to be sure, and in fact, a new
spirit. And I doubt that that sort of thing will
ever happen again. But the fact is, even though
that sort of did happen, and then it was changed in
that regard remarkably. I think it would be rather
remiss of me not to mention that this sort of thing
did happen. And not again, I should hasten to say,
to disparage Mr. Rudder or to tarnish any memory of
him. He was a likable man. I enjoyed him
personally. Not always, but frequently I did. He
had a certain ingenuity, a certain frank spirit
about him. He would talk to you man to man. And he
was, no question about it, a leader of people. But I
didn't always agree with the way he led the people.
I thought that would be worth clarifying. We got
into it in the last part of the tape. Now, you
probably have some more direct questions you'd
like to ask me, Scott. Right. When you came back
from the University of Missouri, back down to A&M,
and you've mentioned the changes in the
university, what were the main changes in that?
community in the Bryan College Station area, and
also not only in the physical sense, but also in the
population sense? And what were some of the
factors that affected that you could see? Well,
first of all, of course, one of the remarkable
things that seemed to happen, even in the time that
we were gone, for those years to the Midwest and
came back in 62. There was a change in the, there was
a very noticeable change in the total population
of College Station in Bryan. New things were
built. There was a skyscraper in Bryan, I think,
eight, ten stories high, the Virisco building,
which as I remember wasn't there, I'm not sure when
it was built, but that's a big building, you know.
Not really a big building by some standards, but a
new big building was built. Well, the number of
people was increasing remarkably and has
increased remarkably since 1962, as everyone
knows. The two communities merged completely
They may have been merged in the old days, but they
weren't really physically that way. They may have
had city limits that were in common, but now
they're literally contiguous cities. You can't
tell unless you saw the city limits sign where one
starts and the other ends. That's a remarkable
change. Both cities have changed in that regard.
Industry-wise, I don't know a lot about that, but
there isn't an awful lot of industry in either
town. There's a little bit more in Bryan, of
course, for fairly obvious reasons, I guess. It
has sought an industry slightly more vigorously.
And obviously, College Station's industry is
A&M. can be, apparently, indefinitely. As far as
the spirit of things around here is concerned,
there's been a very progressive spirit. Let me
mention this. This is an indicator. There was a
time, not too long ago, in fact, since 1962, when
you would drive along the North Gate area on
University, what's now called University Drive,
and I guess always has been, but I had forgotten
what it was called. It had some name, FM, former
market road 60, maybe. But the Northgate area was
actually sort of a depressed area in a way,
frankly, to me. I didn't think it looked at all
progressive. The storefronts weren't well kept
up. Things kind of came and went.
It looked very much like a small central Texas
town. Not to disparage small central Texas towns,
but they don't look... If you look at the typical
one, Let's take, oh, I don't know, Caldwell.
Caldwell's a nice little town, but do you remember
anything distinct about downtown Caldwell? It's
not really, there are a few, there's a hardware
store, some filling stations, a drug store, too,
where you can get coffee and toothpaste and
Photoshop, maybe, or that sort of thing. Well,
that's kind of what the North Gate was. It wasn't
anything very special about it, except there
were, well, there used to be some cafes over there.
I don't think, maybe there still are, but I
remember distinctively one or two that I thought
were acceptable. Little places to get breakfast
in the morning if you needed to, go over early. But
it was generally a rundown. It didn't look
progressive. It looked like, what's the word?
Depressed area, something like that. Whereas
now, I think the Northgate area is really spruced
up, relatively speaking. You could say more, but
it's doing, I think, very, very well. And the
general spirit of things, I think, is reflected in
that. You see new... and thriving things on Texas
Avenue and all around A&M. And I suppose that's
just what happens when there are more people and
there are more customers. There's more
prosperity for those who cater to the customers.
I'm not sure that all follows, but that's just the
way I see it, simple way. So I would say that the
general air here has gotten to the general spirit
of things has gotten more, a good deal more
progressive, and there seems to be more obvious
pride in the appearance of things.
And that pleases me. I'd rather have it that way
than have it appear to be a depressed area. Now, the
South Gate section is developing much more
slowly. For reasons I don't understand, there's
not as much going on over there. People move in and
out with fabric stores and a couple filling
stations. It used to be that North Gate wasn't a
very different spirit from the South Gate area.
I'm talking about beyond the tennis courts.
There's a nice tennis shop over there, and that's
marvelous. It just overruns, and I think that's
one of my favorite places in the world. But that's
not enough to sustain the community over there.
There's a need for other things, I would guess. Of
course, the Redmond Terrace area services the
community, and that's pretty fancy now with the
Aikenland Inn and And across the street, Holiday
Inn and all those things. That takes the place of
anything that would have developed in the
so-called South Gate, what might have been called
the South Gate area. Maybe isn't. Maybe never will
be now because it's superseded by the Redmond
Terrace area, the Culpepper, the new Culpepper
Center. That's fine. It's OK with me. I like to see
progress in that sense. And I think it helps
everybody to be more comfortable and to enjoy this
community. I like the old-fashioned way, too. But
if the old-fashioned way means looking
depressed, then I don't particularly like that.
The growth of Bryan College Station, a lot of it can
be attributed directly to A&M with this growth and
more students coming. But do you see that the
growth is playing off of the increase in A&M's
enrollment or do you just see something else
that's bringing people to Bryan College Station?
I'm not sure I'm qualified to answer that. Maybe
this will be a partial answer, though. I do feel
that A&M's decision to allow coeducation
here was a very smart move and a very timely move. I
don't know whether you're aware of it, and I'm just
only remotely aware of it, but other universities
Many other universities in the country, and
perhaps most other universities in the country,
have declining enrollment, whereas A&M is
enjoying, if that's the word for it, is at least
experiencing
rather remarkable increasing enrollment. A&M is
a very popular place to come, as well as a good place
to come, fortunately. My son will go to A&M, and I
wouldn't choose another school in the state for
him to go to. I'm glad he wants to go here. It turns
out this is where he wants to go to school. But I'm
just tickled. I'm very pleased. I mean, if he had
chosen some other school in Texas, I would have
been disappointed, frankly. And I don't know
whether we could have afforded it either, but
that's beside the point, momentarily. He likes to
go to A&M. He likes the idea of going to A&M for good
reasons. It's academically very strong. It's a
good community of students that attract him. He
likes the type of students that are here, and
everything he knows about the school is positive,
and that's just fine. That's what I feel. I would
have recommended A&M to him if we had lived in
Missouri, for example, if we could have afforded
to send him to A&M, because I think it's a good
school. Now, I think A&M is a better school now
because, frankly, we do have co-education here. I
think having girls to participate in things here,
fortunately the girls that come here have the
Aggie spirit. It seems to me they do. I mean, I think
we've got some real great girls here, and I'm very
pleased with the co-eds. I think they're... I
don't know them all, of course. I know a few. I get to
know them in Physics 350, because we have a few
co-eds in there. And I'm pleased that they're
here. And I'm pleased that they can be in the core
and participate in as important an organization
as that is. They seem not to be in any way
disorienting or fouling up the core, as far as I can
tell. They're good spirited gals, and I don't know
a lot about that, frankly, but I see no, I may be
wrong, but it seems to me that they're not causing
any serious problems. They're not, so to speak,
changing the core from the greatness it has always
had, as far as I can tell. And I think having girls
come here on just a routine basis and
accommodating them in dormitories was a very
important move for A&M. And my guess is, in answer
to your question now more directly, that having
coeducation here has changed the community
in various ways, sometimes indirectly,
sometimes directly, as anything else. I think
there are people who come to A&M now who wouldn't
come otherwise, who would want to be at a good
school like this, but who would rather see a more
balanced social life, more balanced than would be
normally here if it were just all male. And that, of
course, brings more students, and it helps bring a
diversity of businesses or stores that
accommodate young ladies with special kinds of
clothing, I suppose, and things that are
feminine, whereas otherwise we wouldn't have
that. That accommodates the wives of people who
have to live here and enjoy living here. And so it
goes. There must be many chains of cause and
effect, which are related to the admission of
girls to A&M. And I'm very pleased that it's
happened. I think it was inevitable, but I'm glad
it happened when it did, because we now are growing
and doing well. What do you think about it? I think
it's pretty good. Dr. Dunn, I know you have a
meeting you have to go to, and I appreciate your
time. I appreciate you letting me interview you
for this project. Well, thank you very much,
Scott. It's a pleasure to participate and hope
it's some help to you. I'm sure it will be, sir.
Thank you. You bet.